macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Municipalities are faced with a major backlog of unpaid utility services resulting in revenue
shortages. This is primarily due to billing discrepancy disputes and reduced revenue collection due
to interim billing, a direct result of aging infrastructure and in-accurate consumption figures as
well as many unbilled points.

The replacement of legacy metering infrastructure with Smart metering for both Electricity and
Water will provide an increase in accurate electricity and water consumption data in real-time, for
billing purposes, facilitating a reduction in monthly municipal interim billing and a noticeable
improvement in revenue collection. This coupled with smart prepaid metering, which focuses on
ensuring that bypasses and ghost vending are eradicated, will ensure financial viability of
municipalities.

Thanks to our wildly innovative Internet of Things (loT) solutions, many Smart Cities are already
active and deploying rapidly. All soheres of government can leverage cellular and Low Power Wide
Area Network (LPWAN) loT technologies such as NB-loT, Sigfox, and Lora WAN to connect and
improve infrastructure, improve efficiency, reduce costs, and enhance convenience and quality of
life for citizens.

The following challenges have been identified in the utility sector:

Utility Challenge Our Smart Utility Solutions

Reliable data for informed |e Accurate, clean, and verified data to allow for effective
planning, maintenance, and management and maintenance regarding the utility's
management. infrastructure (both electricity and water).

e Reliable data to allow for informed future planning for
utility upgrades, investment, and expansion of utility
services

Improved Revenue Collection, |e Accurate billing which promotes trust and encourages
Financial Management and payment for utility services utilised.

Strategic Planning. e The ability to budget and plan based using reliable

revenue and expense data for financial and alternative
infrastructure expenditure scenarios for strategic
planning.

e Increased ability to invest in future capital projects.

e Reliable data regarding consumption, billing and
infrastructure status will provide for greater budgetary
control.

e Stronger financial control and _ infrastructure
management will promote creditworthiness and
borrowing cost reduction.

Change management for citizen | e The need to change people's behaviour from a culture
payment behaviour change. of non-payment for services to payment for services.

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Utility Challenge Our Smart Utility Solutions

Socio-Economic Upliftment. e Job creation and upskilling of local artisans is a primary
need to foster competency strengths in the utilities
sector.

Revenue Citizen

Total Billing Collection Collection

Traditional
Metering

i
t

Smart Metering

Solution

Figure 1.1: Benefit Realisation of Smart Metering

The reduction of interim billing; building citizen confidence, promoting revenue collection, and
reducing billing disputes.

Accurate billing removing interim billing (the usage of estimated average consumption) which
increases revenue recovery.

Smart notification of meter tampering (electrical and water meter bypasses), including vandalism
and ghost vending, allowing for quicker resolution.

Smart identification of previously unbilled meters not yet loaded onto the municipal platform;
increasing billing points.

The ability to identify water leaks early; limiting water wastage and improve restoration response
time.

Historical information is available. Data is digitised and stored with access 24/7. This data is for
analytics and planning purposes.

The ability to access verified customer information and their consumption of electricity and water.

Page 2|9

AN
macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

* Clean, Accurate & Verified Data
* Data is digitized and cloud .
stored; available 24/7. Reliable Data a

+ Analytics and reporting tools * — Interim billing reduced

available + Actual consumption billed
* Replaced manual meter reading * Verified and Audited check
O Accurate readings, including POE, are
Billing submitted.

* Seamless billing integration with
financial systems

. Increased base to collect Revenue * Reduction in billing exceptions

revenue from, Collection
+ Increased payments
received, reduced disputes.
* Informed planning and
Informed decision making regarding
Planning Municipality Utility
infrastructure maintenance,
management and future
* Macrocomm Resources on Project upgrade planning due to Data
site for full contractual period Support Analysis.
post implementation.

Figure 1.2: Smart Metering Solution - Benefit Highlights

We understand and respect the current constraints Government institutions experience;
unfunded budgets, low revenue generation, little to no capital expenditure, and increasing
operational expenditure with a very low revenue recovery rate.

Our smart metering solution focuses on enhancing revenue within government institutions by
focusing on revenue protection, enhancement, and recovery. These three pillars form the basis of
this intervention.

Implementation of Smart Utility Solutions for electricity and water results in the following benefits
for each municipality, government departments and the Country as a whole.

The table below depicts the smart utility metering solutions for both electricity and water, and the
corresponding benefits.

Smart Metering Solution Offering Smart Metering Solution Benefits

Accuracy and completeness of meter | e Accurate meter readings resulting in accurate
readings for automatic and seamless billing.

integration into the billing system;
removing manual meter reading risks
in accordance with MSCOA.

e Citizen confidence.

e Increased revenue collection; allowing the credit
control department better control over their book.

e Fewer disputes over billing.

e Removal of interim billing for electricity and/or
water

e Improved monthly financial reports.

e Improved reporting on vandalism, water leakages
and other billing exceptions.

Page 3|9

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Smart Metering Solution Offering

Efficiency through seamless
integration into the billing
(municipalities financial | system)
removing human intervention risks,
as data is transmitted securely using
encryption.

Smart Metering Solution Benefits

e Billing and financial data transferred securely
through an encrypted file for uploading into the
municipalities financial system (billing).

e Citizens can access their electricity and water
accounts on their phone using the Mobile App.

Tamper reporting through system
signals and alerts which allows for
faster investigations and
interventions to protect revenue and
integrity of the electricity and water
grid.

e Tamper signals and = alerts communicated
frequently allowing for investigation and
intervention to protect revenue collection.

Remote disconnection and
reconnection of electricity and water
meters as required, based upon
customer payment status

e The reconnect and disconnect fee per water meter
can be saved using functionality provided with the
smart electricity and water meter solution system
via remote AMR platform.

Our data is digitised

e All data captured via FDM (Field Deployment
Manager - Installation Tool), Verification Tool and
data consumed from other data sets, is available
on the loT platform in real-time, and is cloud
stored for ease of access - 24/7,

e Analytics & reporting tools are available on the loT
platform. A myriad of standard reports is currently
available, with the ability to request for additional
templates timeously.

Verification Tool & Data Cleansing -
including the “vetting process”

e Wewill be able to assist in the identification of any
data integrity issues with the data sets provided
for the implementation of the Smart Metering
Project and is able to conduct independent data
cleansing activities.

e We will implement a Verification/Audit process,
which involves the in-field site audit of every ERF
within the boundaries of each municipality, with
the updating of the following critical data;

o GEO location,

o Street address,

o Electricity and Water meter numbers,
o Account numbers,

o ERF ref, etc.

e All above data is “vetted” prior to being uploaded
onto the loT platform. This process entails back-
office resources reviewing all information
captured using the in-field application, against

Page 4|9

macro

SMART MADE

Smart Metering Solution Offering

Smart Metering Solution Benefits

POE (Proof of Evidence) available, thereafter either
accepting, rejecting, or escalating data elements. It
is understood that data cleansing is a key aspect of
implementing the new smart utility metering
infrastructure.

e The QA process ensure that data being uploaded
onto the loT platform is accurate.

e The above process proves vital in resolving any
“unmatched” records/accounts for billing
purposes.

FDM (Field Deployment Manager)
Tool - Including the “Vetting” process

e We use an in-house developed FDM for the
successful installation, configuration &
commissioning of in-field loT hardware (Electrical
& Water Smart Meters).

e This tool is in the form of a smart phone
application which is available on the play store at
no charge.

e Data captured on the FDM Tool is used to activate
devices onto the loT platform and ensure correct
information is being uploaded.

e All above data is “vetted” prior to being uploaded
onto the loT platform. This process entails back-
office resources reviewing all information
captured using the in-field application, against
POE available, thereafter either accepting,
rejecting or escalating data elements.

e This tool is also used for device “swap-outs”, which
ensures no duplication of devices per
account/ERF. We request that municipalities
technical (Water & Electricity) utilise this tool, to
ensure continuity of data cleansing with matching
of devices to account. The data captured via this
tool will accurately update the existing records,
seamlessly. We can _ provide detailed SOP
(Standard Operating Procedure) for this process,
including training on the use of the tools.

e The FDM “swap out” function covers the variations
of:

o Water meter swap-out: Replacing of an old
non-functional water meter with a new one.

o Smart pulse unit swap out: Only the Smart
pulse unit is swapped out, with the current
water meter being “linked” to the new pulse
unit.

Page 5|9

SIMPLE

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Smart Metering Solution Offering Smart Metering Solution Benefits

e Both water meter & pulse units being swapped
out: The loT platform is updated with new
information on the new devices for a particular
account. Old units are made in-active on the
platform, thereby ensuring accurate billing in real-

time.

Check Readings e We are committed to supplying in-field verified &
audited check readings, including POE, for billing
purposes.

e Where AMR (Automatic Meter Reading) issues are
being experienced, we are committed to supplying
in-field verified & audited check readings,
including POE, for billing purposes.

e It is important that readings which have been
checked and are approved as accurate are sent
through and utilised, to drive the removal of all
interim billing exceptions.

Billing integration e Our Billing registers can be seamlessly integrated
into any municipal billing platform.

Reduced billing exceptions e Our solution can highlight billing exceptions such
as:

o Unbilled - water and energy usage:
municipalities currently billing customer
for all services except Water usage

o Incorrect meter number on a municipal
billing system, e.g.: captured as “NEW”. Our
Commissioning sheet not being used to
update the billing data.

o New & old meters active on the
Municipality financial system. Customer
being billed interim on old meter & actual
on new meter (Double billing).

o 1 x Account number linked to multiple
addresses: Incorrect consumer being
billed.

o Duplicate Meter numbers - 1 x Meter
number linked to multiple accounts/
Different stands.

o Incomplete Meter serial numbers, e.g.:
Correct meter number: C-SKG4373.
Municipal billing system has: 4373.

e  In-correct and in-complete street addresses from
the municipal data set.

Page 6|9

SE

mMacrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE
Comprehensive Solution Offering

Due to our extensive experience in the smart municipal utility management space, we have
developed systems and solutions that add value to our clientele. We believe that through constant
system and solution research, development, and improvements, we can ensure that governments
operate at optimal utility management standards while maintaining service delivery commitments
and optimising revenue management in their utility management operational stream.

=)
©)
g@Q)

Auditing of
Eskom Bills

ged

Data cleansing

ea

Integration

Community
engagement &
education

Municipal
auditing

Supply of
hardware

SMART
UTILITIES

THe

Training & SMME
Development

G 5 >)

Real-time
monitoring
& verification

APY , Ges
Zs nN) C iy (x)
Billing, tariff & Load Platform, Cloud Data Field Pewee 8
vending & Smart management analytics & hosting & Cyber Connectivity

Management

wallet services

reporting security layer

Macrocomm will provide an end-to-end service for hardware supply, field installation & project
management, AMR services, vending & collection services, and SLA & maintenance contracts as
part of the smart metering solution. The process on how this will be achieved has been stated
below:

Auditing and Data Cleansing

We start with an audit service that is included in the overall solution. This focuses on
understanding the key challenges faced in the revenue management of the institution. We are
able to identify major areas that can be quickly fixed to make a difference to the government
institution and focus on these areas as the first phase of the project.

Resolution of current disputes

All government institutions are faced with disputed accounts daily. Through a national contact
centre or aconsumer engagement smart phone application, teams can address consumer queries
and deploy trained staff to address disputes, driving revenue recovery and creating a culture of
payment adoption through accurate and trusted billing.

Page 7|9

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE
Tariff correction and alignment
The implementation of approved tariffs, appropriately aligned to customer accounts, is key for
revenue enhancement. Data analytics will identify the correct customer allocations ensuring
accurate billing and tariff alignment.

Revenue recovery

Government institutions are faced with billions of historical debt. As part of our Value-Added
Services (VAS), we will implement the debt recovery regulations and manage the full recovery
process.

Revenue enhancement - LPU reconstruction

Large Power Users are the highest revenue-contributing customers of any government institution.
As part of the VAS, our teams will focus on these customers to ensure the accuracy & correctness
of the AMI. (Automatic Meter Infrastructure)

Statistical Metering solutions

Ensuring a healthy network infrastructure is key to any distribution. The solution will focus on a
turnkey methodology by managing incomers, substations, kiosks, and end supply points. This
provides insights into technical and non-technical loses, allowing municipalities to take corrective
action.

Energy Storage Solutions
Generation and storage in these networks become key in ensuring constant quality supply.
Storage is a major contributor to revenue enhancement based on TOU tariff management.

Supply of Hardware

With our supplier agreements with leading hardware OEM partners, we can provide superior
quality accredited products at cost-effective pricing. Electricity & Water meters will support
GSM/LTE & NB-loT modules. Our experience in the field and working at mass has taught us the
hardware with individual communication modules is much more effective than concentrator type
on PLC. This is primarily due to communication problems experienced by the latter.

Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) services

AMR services are the only way of effectively monitoring and managing all revenue interventions
or programs. AMR services provide real-time alerts on all possible exceptions that may arise and
enable government institutions to not only protect current but also future revenue. Effective
budget and financial forecasting is facilitated with this process.

Vending & collection services

e Wewill deploy a full vending solution to drive revenue collection.

e The vending solution will be linked to the AMR system and the monitoring of token
purchases against consumption patterns, in real time, can identify possible ghost vending.

e Alerts for partial or complete by-passes and equipment tampering is also reported on the
AMR platform.

e We have implemented numerous collection gateways for government institutions,
including secure online or infield payment channels and smart wallets.

e Money is securely collected and transferred to the various government institutions at
agreed timeframes, thereby assisting with cashflow management.

Page 8|9

»)

Mmacrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Technical Diagrams

Tier 6 — Prepaid STS and Thin Prepaid

UTILITY BILLS;
1. Municipalities
3 — # 2. Electricity Supplier

Smartivve 3. Water Supplier

see

Tier 3.1 — Meter Data Management and Tier 5 — Utility Accounting and Tariff Optimization
Visualization Console —_ Including Smart Prepaid Revenue Recovery

_ LIVEWIRE METER DATA SOLAR BILLING SYSTEM
MANAGEMENT PLATFORM Utilities Accounting
REPORTING:
Usage Data with
30-min logs and 1. Supplier Payment Sheets
~ Tier 2— Connectivity and MOTT TINE SEES dara +t ( 2. Budgets

Ss 3. Financial Analysis

4, Qwner/Manager Online

| LIVEMOPAY PREPAID PLATFORM

LIVEWIRE IOT

+) MANAGEMENT Portal
PLATFORM / ,
te) Batch Layer — Historical Analysis / / Daily usage
Speed Layer — Data in-motion / & a eh
Analysis i“ 4 TIBCO / POWER BI Y Pl
3) No Dashboard / Power BI
Power Meter Devices REPORTING:
a) Water Meter Devices 1. Customized dashboard
BTU Meter Devices REPORTING: It OO 2. Benchmarks
oO loT Controller Devices 1. Utility Management Reports ~ 3. Dashboard
2. Environmental Reports 4. Customized Power BI
Tier 1- Metering and Edge SMARTWIRE 3. Customized reports Reports
vices Mobil i
© Se een Tier 3.2 — Meter Data Management Tier 4 — Data Analytics including energy efficiency and
water usage including with Tariff Console environmental Dashboard and Reporting
[?) Liveview Web Portal

Utility Layer — Exposing Business Logic =~
Environmental Reporting connecr Zon
Property Efficiency Reporting Na YS

Budget versus Actual Reporting

ELECTRICITY METER

Active and Reactive Power

LIVEWIRE METER DATA
MANAGEMENT PLATFORM

1
Ts
Existing drivers & Collectors al
+ Kamstrup .
+ Elster /Honeywell
+ Landis &
* Echelon ovr i Starting Currents
. jing Sy phy
+ Meteronic Ey - - Huta i Lat enaA reno oN
+ Actaris =
+ tron =
* Siemens 23)
* Schneider 1s \
* Accu Energy * Active Energy (import, export) Be wah t eye
* Panel track * Reactive Energy (lag, lead) — ~—
: ow * Voltage (min, max) Pal |
We have access to 17 in-house system integrators who is capable * Current (min, max) g z| |
of writing code !! * Frequency is veky sha diyth {
Including phasor diagram on demand j¢ 4 1,,! f S yt 1 ners
hase direct connect metersup to 1008 er ecrRicrry mL) pA haf Ary oan

Three phase direct connect meters up to 1004,
Three phase CT connect meters (> 100A)

WATER METER DESIGN “Cer ~

wed ELECTRICITY

the Power of Preverd

= LIVEWIRE METER DATA - _ Yan Riobeeckshof ‘Spar
MANAGEMENT PLATFORM Livewire
Elect=isity Credit al
‘nig (78 E82 ys
kamstrup 4g —

10.7 kWh @ 1.8393 R/kwn:

inant: 19.62
Tax R2.94
= jotal: R22.56
Receipt Ref RE11611247332481
cold Water Recovery
Amount Ine}? 2246.62 =

Existing drivers & Collectors
All pulse out type meters via Small DCU Web-
RF Elster interface API COLD Hot water Recovery

Amount Incl 850.82

RF Kamstrup 7 WATER Grand total: 8 320.00 HOT
Kamstrup y Free units 0.00 kith WATER
Inventia MT Cr $s. 10.79 kWh,

CloudWorks loggers tal Units : 10.70 kin

Flecto Sense aetgiot ss
RF Sensus Vodacom Cloud 4k 4? Becetot Wo: OT ie4za7is
Bridge 1OT devices ? Vourher ID: E20!
i q Gugtomer: Att ie van’ Juarsveiat
ress
We have access to 17 in-house system integrators who is capable of Use the Kamstrup Cres fe a0
writing code !! (Gp) MC21 water meters Tacit aye dane ts
- with Mobile Atti 20% 6/2801
Concentrator and hee to: yagnaac7as
‘communication on the Meter No 14271440746
Vodacom Network Le TeM oie ay. GE
Ai water
3

Page 9|9