Our People

Sivi Moodley

Macrommm Group CEO

Sivi has been an active and successful entrepreneur over the last 30
years. He has successfully lead and managed medium to large
businesses predominately in the Mobile Network, Retail, Property , IT
and the Internet of Things business arena. Sivi is instrumental in
guiding Macrocomm in becoming a leading supplier of smart
solutions to large corporates in South Africa . Sivi’s strategic
entrepreneur expertise leads the Macrocomm team in line with

international best practices given his extensive international travels.

Elton Chettiar:

Macrommm Group COO

Elton Chettiar has 19 years experience in the telecommunications
sector with a strong focus on lol. He has completed a mini
Telcom’s MBA and numerous courses on Sales, Economics &
Business Management in New York, USA, Account Management ,
Account Co-ordination, Strategic Account Management and
Communication in London UK, Emotional Intelligence and Train
the Trainer in Asia , Marketing principles via Unisa SA and Advance
Technologies 1&2, VTA South Africa. He thrives on new and
emerging technologies and thoroughly understands the South

African loT sector’s landscape.

Rahen Naidoo:
Macrommm Group CTO

Rahen Naidoo has been with Macrocomm since 2010 after delivering value

for more than 20 years across various Corporate industries including
Eskom and Bosch. His roles within these corporates have included,
Engineering Manager , Senior Product Manager and concept
Marketing Manager. Rahen has an Electronics Engineering
background, coupled with an MBA in international Marketing. Rahen
currently oversees technology and Medical Solutions portfolios at

Macrocomm and plays a vital role in new business development.

Steven Hendey

Macrommm RTS CEO

Steven Hendey qualified at DUT with a National Diploma in Electrical
Engineering Light Current (Electronics) specializing in RF and
Microwave and has over 24 years in the industry in the fields of
Electronic Engineering, project and strategic planning and business
management. Steven is passionate about technology and the potential
it provides to solve problems and improve society, continuously
following the latest innovations and exploring new opportunities to

develop smart.

Sean Hardman

Director : Technical Services

Hailing from an IT background that extends back to before the term
Information Technology was coined, Sean Hardman joined Macrocomm Fleet
Analytics as Director of Technical Services on the back of 5 years with full
time involvement with the fleet management industry, employed then by

the 3rd largest vehicle tracking company in the world.

His initial entry into the world of vehicle telematics was in the year 2001,

from which stemmed the love of deep analysis of telematics data.