Document - Template Name MG-HRP-RMW
Previous Name, if changed

MCG- AD-22 Rev:01 Date: 19/01/2022

Description

MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY -
fe

Revision No

z “macro

Date of Revision
Date of Next Revision

11 JANUARY 2025

REMOTE WORKING POLICY

1 General

Purpose:

Macrocomm has developed this policy to ensure that there are a
clear set of principles and rules that outline the expectations of
both the employer and employees when work is being carried out
remotely. It defines remote work arrangements, offers guidance
for effective remote work, emphasises compliance with company
policies, and details equipment provisions for remote employees.

Responsibility
and

Managers are required to apply the guidelines in this policy to
ensure a productive working arrangement and employees are
required to comply with the requirements, to retain the benefit of

authority:
y being able to work remotely.
All Macrocomm Group permanent and fixed term employees and
Scope: consultants, including employees within subsidiaries, service

lines, and acquisition companies.

2 Policy summary

Remote working is an agreement between employees and managers to work from a

non-office location. Working from home certain days a week on a recurring basis are

situations covered by our work from home policy.

We require remote employees to maintain a consistent work schedule that aligns with their

team’s needs and the company’s core working hours of 8:00 to 17:00. All employees must be

available and responsive during these core hours. Outside of these core hours, employees
may arrange their work hours flexibly, so long as required tasks are completed, and effective

communication is maintained with their team and manager.

MG-HRP-RMW REVO3 MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY 120124 PageO | 4
All printed copies of this Document are considered 'Uncontrolled Copies'

11 JANUARY 2024 aed SMART MADE SIMPLE

Document - Template Name
Previous Name, if changed

MG-HRP-RMW

MCG- AD-22 Rev:01 Date: 19/01/2022

Description

MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY

Revision No

02

Date of Revision

Date of Next Revision

11 JANUARY 2024

11 JANUARY 2025

SE

“macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

The employee's usual and agreed working hours and performance expectations remain

unchanged, unless otherwise agreed. In instances of lack of output, the line manager

may take appropriate management action to remedy the situation.

Macrocomm is a predominantly office-based environment. However, certain roles are

permitted to work predominantly remotely by virtue of the type of job duties required.

These include Sales focused roles, IT developers, call centre and Customer support

roles. For these roles, the success of remote working will depend on clear deliverables,

and regular management communication.

@ Permissible remote working roles need to be in the office at least 2 days per

week, for the full workday period. This ensures alignment with the rest of

the business.

@ Permissible remote working roles need to ensure that they are available for

business meetings which request on-site attendance.

@ For the remainder of roles within Macrocomm and its divisions, remote

working requests need to be approved and managed directly with the

relevant line manager and should not exceed 1 day per week or 4 days per

month.

@ Any employee working remotely, should be accessible via phone or email at

any time, between 8am and 5pm.

@ Should Load shedding of stage 2 or higher be applied, and the employee

does not have a fully functional inverter system in their home that allows
them to be online for the majority of the workday, the employee is

required to be at a designated office.

@ For individuals opting to work from home, additional data and phone costs

(other than the basic provided by the company) will be for their own

expense.

@® Customer feedback surveys will be conducted quarterly for individuals in

customer facing roles that work predominantly remotely, and should

feedback not be positive, the company reserves the right to re-contract
around remote working.

@ The company can, at any stage, revoke a decision to allow someone to work

from home.

MG-HRP-RMW REVO3 MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY 120124

All printed copies of this Document are considered 'Uncontrolled Copies'

Page 1 | 4

Document - Template Name
Previous Name, if changed

MG-HRP-RMW
MCG- AD-22 Rev:01 Date: 19/01/2022

Description

MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY

Revision No

02

Date of Revision

Date of Next Revision

11 JANUARY 2024
11 JANUARY 2025

3 Success Factors

\
\

EG

“macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

We expect all employees to maintain high levels of performance whether they work in-office

or remotely. Remote workers should stay mindful of their performance goals, productivity

metrics and progress tracking. Managers will conduct regular assessment of performance to

ensure employees working remotely are meeting expectations, and employees should

maintain open communication with their managers for support as needed to achieve their

goals.

3.1 More direct management of employees working remotely, will ensure

greater productivity and output, thus contributing further to the overall

performance of the business:

@ Managers need to ensure that a daily virtual meeting is held with

employees working remotely.

@ Employees working remotely should be providing a daily email update/ or

progress report to their relevant line manager.

@ All employees working remotely should enable the settings for their outlook

calendar to be accessible by all, and all client/ customer meetings should

reflect accurately on the calendar, e.g., Name of client - Sales Product

engaged on.

@ Clear performance KPI’s need to be set and agreed at the beginning of each

financial year and reviewed regularly. This is especially important for Sales,

IT and Operational roles, so that outputs and deliverables are clear at any

given stage.

3.2 To ensure that employee performance will not suffer in remote work

arrangements, we advise our remote employees to:

manager.

Choose a quiet and distraction-free working space.

Have an internet connection that is adequate for their job.

Adhere to break and attendance schedules agreed upon with their

Dedicate their full attention to their job duties during working hours.

@ Ensure their schedules overlap with those of their team members for as

long as is necessary to complete their job duties effectively.

MG-HRP-RMW REVO3 MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY 120124

All printed copies of this Document are considered 'Uncontrolled Copies'

Page 2 | 4

Document - Template Name MG-HRP-RMW

Previous Name, if changed MCG- AD-22 Rev:01 Date: 19/01/2022 “\

Description MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY ( YX |

Revision No 02 \

Date of Revision 11 JANUARY 2024 Macro "MADE SIMPLE
Date of Next Revision 11 JANUARY 2025

@ Team members and managers should determine long-term and short-term

goals. They should frequently meet (either online or in-person when
possible) to discuss progress and results.

4 Compliance with Policies

Any employee that works remotely is expected to perform their duties in accordance

with their contracts of employment, conditions of service, and/or their respective job
descriptions.

Employees must follow our company’s policies like their office-based colleagues.
Examples of policies that all employees should abide by are:

Attendance.

Social media.

Confidentiality.

Data protection.

Employee Code of Conduct.
Anti-discrimination/Equal opportunity.

Dress code when meeting with customers or partners.

5 Equipment and resources

We will provide our remote employees with equipment that is essential to their job
duties, like laptops, and cell phones (when applicable.) We will not provide secondary
equipment (e.g. printers and screens). There is an expectation that should an employee
opt to work from home, they have a stable internet connection available to them for the
duration of their workday.

In the event of Stage 2 load shedding and above, it is required that you resume work at
the company offices, which accommodates for load shedding.

Equipment that we provide is company property. Employees must keep it safe and
avoid any misuse. Specifically, employees must:

Keep their equipment password protected.
Store equipment in a safe and clean space when not in use.
Follow all data encryption, protection standards and settings.

Refrain from downloading suspicious, unauthorized or illegal software.

MG-HRP-RMW REVO3 MG REMOTE WORKING POLICY 120124 Page 3 | 4
All printed copies of this Document are considered 'Uncontrolled Copies'