Template Name MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 ZN)

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SH-010 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY ) macro Qe |
v4 SMART MADE SIMPLE

Description MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.

Revision No 01

Date of Revision 18 JUNE 2025

Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

Author CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN Approver YAKSHINI NAIDOO

SEXUAL HARASSEMENT POLICY

1 THE POLICY STATEMENT

Macrocomm is committed to providing a safe environment for all its employees free
from discrimination on any ground and from harassment at work including sexual
harassment.

Macrocomm will operate a zero-tolerance policy for any form of sexual harassment in
the workplace, treat all incidents seriously and promptly investigate all allegations of
sexual harassment. Any person found to have sexually harassed another will face
disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal from employment. All complaints of
sexual harassment will be taken seriously and treated with respect and in confidence.
No one will be victimised for making such a complaint.

2 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT

Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature which makes a person feel
offended, humiliated and/or intimidated. It includes situations where a person is asked
to engage in sexual activity as a condition of that person’s employment, as well as
situations which create an environment which is hostile, intimidating or humiliating for
the recipient. Sexual harassment can involve one or more incidents and actions
constituting harassment may be physical, verbal and non-verbal. Examples of conduct
or behaviour which constitute sexual harassment include, but are not limited to:

2.1 Physical Conduct
e Unwelcome physical contact including patting, pinching, stroking, kissing,
hugging, fondling, or inappropriate touching
e Physical violence, including sexual assault
e Physical contact, e.g. touching, pinching

e The use of job-related threats or rewards to solicit sexual favours

2.2 Verbal Conduct

e Comments on a worker's appearance, age, private life, etc.

e Sexual comments, stories and jokes

MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY Page 1 of 5

Template Name MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 CN 1

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SH-010 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY : ‘Y macro C l
v4 SMART MADE SIMPLE

Description MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.

Revision No 01

Date of Revision 18 JUNE 2025

Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

Author | CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN Approver YAKSHINI NAIDOO

e Sexual advances

e Repeated and unwanted social invitations for dates or physical intimacy
e Insults based on the sex of the worker

e Condescending or paternalistic remarks

e Sending sexually explicit messages (by phone or by email)
2.3 Non-Verbal Conduct

e Display of sexually explicit or suggestive material
e Sexually-suggestive gestures

e Whistling

e = Leering

Anyone can be a victim of sexual harassment, regardless of their sex and of the sex of
the harasser. Macrocomm recognises that sexual harassment may also occur between
people of the same sex. What matters is that the sexual conduct is unwanted and
unwelcome by the person against whom the conduct is directed.

Macrocomm recognises that sexual harassment is a manifestation of power
relationships and often occurs within unequal relationships in the workplace, for
example between manager or supervisor and employee. Anyone, including employees
of Macrocomm, clients, customers, casual workers, contractors or visitors who sexually
harasses another will be reprimanded in accordance with this internal policy.

All sexual harassment is prohibited whether it takes place within Macrocomm premises
or outside, including at social events, business trips, training sessions or conferences
sponsored by Macrocomm.

3 COMPLAINTS PROCEDURES

Anyone who is subject to sexual harassment should, if possible, inform the alleged
harasser that the conduct is unwanted and unwelcome. Macrocomm recognises that
sexual harassment may occur in unequal relationships (i.e. between a supervisor and
his/her employee) and that it may not be possible for the victim to inform the alleged
harasser. If a victim cannot directly approach an alleged harasser, he/she can approach
one of the designated staff members responsible for receiving complaints of sexual
harassment. This person could be another supervisor, a member of the human resources
department, etc.

When a designated person receives a complaint of sexual harassment, he/she will:

MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY Page 2 of 5

Template Name MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 ( : . \

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SH-010 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY Y macro Qoeiaai aa
Vs SMART MADE SIMPLE

Description MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY

Revision No 01

Date of Revision 18 JUNE 2025

Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

Author CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN Approver YAKSHINI NAIDOO

e immediately record the dates, times and facts of the incident(s)
e ascertain the views of the victim as to what outcome he/she wants

e ensure that the victim understands the company’s procedures for dealing with
the complaint

e discuss and agree the next steps: either informal or formal complaint, on the
understanding that choosing to resolve the matter informally does not preclude
the victim from pursuing a formal complaint if he/she is not satisfied with the
outcome

e keep aconfidential record of all discussions
e respect the choice of the victim

e ensure that the victim knows that they can lodge the complaint outside of the
company through the relevant country/legal framework

Throughout the complaints procedure, a victim is entitled to be helped by a counsellor
within the company. Macrocomm will nominate several counsellors and provide them
with special training to enable them to assist victims of sexual harassment. Macrocomm
recognises that because sexual harassment often occurs in unequal relationships within
the workplace, victims often feel that they cannot come forward. Macrocomm
understands the need to support victims in making complaints.

3.1 Informal Complaints Mechanism

If the victim wishes to deal with the matter informally, the designated person will:
e give an opportunity to the alleged harasser to respond to the complaint
e ensure that the alleged harasser understands the complaints mechanism

e facilitate discussion between both parties to achieve an informal resolution
which is acceptable to the complainant, or refer the matter to a designated
mediator within the company to resolve the matter

e ensure that a confidential record is kept of what happens

e follow up after the outcome of the complaints mechanism to ensure that the
behaviour has stopped

e ensure that the above is done speedily and within 3 days of the complaint being
made

MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY Page 30f5

Template Name MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 ( : . \

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SH-010 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY Y macro Qoeiaai aa
Vs SMART MADE SIMPLE

Description MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY

Revision No 01

Date of Revision 18 JUNE 2025

Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

Author CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN Approver YAKSHINI NAIDOO

3.2 Formal Complaints Mechanism

If the victim wants to make a formal complaint or if the informal complaint mechanism
has not led to a satisfactory outcome for the victim, the formal complaint mechanism
should be used to resolve the matter.

The designated person who initially received the complaint will refer the matter to a
senior human resources manager to instigate a formal investigation. The senior human
resources manager may deal with the matter him/herself, refer the matter to an
internal or external investigator or refer it to a committee.

The person carrying out the investigation will:
e interview the victim and the alleged harasser separately
e interview other relevant third parties separately
e decide whether the incident(s) of sexual harassment took place
e produce a report detailing the investigations, findings and any recommendations

e ifthe harassment took place, decide what the appropriate remedy for the victim
is, in consultation with the victim (i.e.- an apology, a change to working
arrangements, a promotion if the victim was demoted because of the
harassment, training for the harasser, discipline, suspension, dismissal)

e follow up to ensure that the recommendations are implemented, that the
behaviour has stopped, and that the victim is satisfied with the outcome

e if it cannot determine that the harassment took place, he/she may still make
recommendations to ensure proper functioning of the workplace

e keep a record of all actions taken
e ensure that all records concerning the matter are kept confidential

e ensure that the process is done as quickly as possible.

4 SANCTIONS AND DISCIPLINARY MEASURES

Anyone who has been found to have sexually harassed another person under the terms
of this policy is liable to any of the following sanctions:

e verbal or written warning
e suspension

e immediate dismissal

MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY Page 4o0f 5

Template Name

MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name

MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01

Previous Name, if changed

MC- PO-SH-010 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY

Description

MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY

macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Revision No

Date of Revision

Author

01

18 JUNE 2025

Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN

Approver

YAKSHINI NAIDOO

5 IMPLEMENTATION OF THIS POLICY

Macrocomm will ensure that this policy is widely disseminated to all staff members. It
will be included in the staff handbook. All new employees must be trained on the
content of this policy as part of their induction into the company.

MG-HR-POL-SXH 202506.01 MG HR SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY

Page 50f5