SMART MADE SIMPLE

SMART MUNICIPALITY
PROPOSAL

TO

COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
and TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
(CoGTA)

macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

1 Executive Summary

Artificial Intelligence (Al) is helping local governments to operate more efficiently through
accelerating service delivery, monitoring and measuring of objectives and targets,
automating and simplifying routine administrative tasks and performing sophisticated
data analysis to help public officials make more informed decisions.

There are several use cases for Al in local government such as strategic objective
monitoring and project management, financial management, smart services
management, road condition management, urban planning and development, public
safety and law enforcement, education and workforce development, community
engagement, healthcare and social services, environmental monitoring and
management, emergency response and disaster management, traffic management and
transportation and citizen services.

The CoGTA District Development Model (DDM) has been designed and implemented to
specifically address problems with service delivery by allowing all soheres of government,
from local municipalities to national government, to work together collaboratively and
effectively. The DDM provides oversight through assisting local municipalities to plan,
budget and implement projects and programmes more effectively. It aids municipalities
to monitor, measure and manage capably and productively.

Dashboards/Scorecards Analytics Predictive Analysis

National 7

Local covernment | Provincial — 4
(one Plan
Local |

District Demographic Profiling

Economic Positioning
Spatial Restructuring
Infrastructure Engineering
Integrated Service Provisioning

Governance and Management

A
Real-time monitoring of Training, Coachin .
Service KPYOKR 6 8 5 Erective Management Central Oversight to Predictive Analysis
*Accountability across all departments Granular Leve

>
[-4
=)
“
<=
ui
[4
=
a
<
2
°
&
2
BS
o

o
U

DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT MODEL
National Objectives, Targets and Strategy

“Alerts

*Performance

KPI/OKR Evaluation, Financial Knowledge
Management Education, Analytics, Budget | Smart Management
Tools & Training, Alerts & Management Services & Effective
Dash(Score)c Coaching & Reporting & Analytics Analytics Record
ards Mentoring Keeping

MacrocommaAl Unity®

Figure 1: MacrocommA! Unity® supports the government's DDM and One Plan for governance and service delivery
oversight

MacrocommaAl Unity© enables and facilitates the needs of the DDM as its tools and
platform monitor and measure the delivery across all spheres of government; promoting
working together in an efficient manner through the use of analytics and predictive

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page1|15

“macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

analytics dashboards and scorecards. This synergy allows for a standardisation of
technology by facilitating the different software platforms information to be accessible
across departments, providing real-time dashboard updates for pro-active management
and maintenance of government services for high-quality service delivery, and enabling
effective knowledge management and record keeping.

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page2|15

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

TABLE OF CONTENTS

—_

kh WwW N

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...........sccssssssssesssseessscesssssesssceessscesssssesssceesesscesssseessssesesscessssesssssssseeees 1
INTRODUCTION ..........cccsscssssessssesssscesssceessscesssssesssceessseessssscessssesssscesssseesscsesesecessssesssssesseoees 4
PROBLEM STATEMENT............ccssssssssscsssscesssecsssccssseessscesssssesssceesssscesasseessssesesscesssssesssssesseeees 5
MACROCOMMAI UNITY® SOLUTION ..............sssssssscssssssescessessccssssscesssssscsessssesessssssesesssseseees 6
4.1. SMART MUNICIPALITIES START WITH SERVICE GOVERNANCE EXCELLENCE.....sssseseseseeeeseeesescseeeeeeeens 9
METHODOLOGY ............ccsscsssscesscesssseesssceessscesssscessscesssscessssscessscesssssesssseessssesssssesasseessssesesees 12
5.1 DESIGN THE DDM Al TARGET OPERATING MODEL... ccccscscsscssecsecsscsscescssecsscsensessscssseensesasenees 12
5.2 ANAI CAPABILITIES ASSESSMENT AND MAP........scsssccsssccsseeeseeeeceeeeseeeescseecseeeeaceeacseecaeeesaeeeaeaees 12
5.3. CHANGE MANAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION STRATEGY ...scssssesesesesceeeeesesescseseeeeeescaeaeeeeeetaenenes 13
5.4 Al TARGET OPERATING MODEL: CENTRALISED HYBRID TOM ......csssssssssesesesesesceeeesescseaeeeeeeeraenenes 13

5.4.1 CeNtANISCH TOM... eesssssesssssessssssesessccsesssnsnssscscsessenensusssscscssasassnsnsesecacssasenenensesssscasasens 13

5.4.2 Hybrid Local Government (Geographically) Aligned TOM......ssssssssesseseteteseerenenes 13

5.4.3 Implementation APprodch PropOSead uuu... ssesssssssssssstesessesenstsssssssserenessnseseeasesenenenes 14
TIMELINE FROM DESIGN TO IMPLEMENT .............scsssccsssscsssssesssssesssscecssscessssesssssesssseessosees 14
MACROCOMMAIT OVERVIEW...........ssscsssssessssesssscecesscecssscesscscessccesssscesssseessscesesssesssesessssesesees 14
CONCLUSION .0........ssssscesssscsssscesssceessscesssscessscesssseessssesssscesssscessscesssscesssseesscseseseeesasseessssesess 14

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 3 | 15

-\)
“macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

2 Introduction

The Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA) Department
has the unenviable role to lead local government through enabling municipalities to
deliver on services of the pre-determined and agreed quality and standard, ensure good
governance, build institutional resilience and administrative capability. The primary tool
to drive delivery of national government's objectives and targets for South Africa is the
District Development Model.

MacrocommAl Unity® leverages core machine and deep learning technologies, data
integration and real-time analytics which enable automation of dashboards, scorecards,
alerts through centralising data for analytics and predictive modelling to promote service
delivery efficacy, cost reductions and informed decision making. This facilitation of strong
operations and processes to manage the local government infrastructure and services to
meet socio-economic needs of its citizens offers the DDM the oversight required.

In 2019, the District Development Model (DDM) and it's One Plan was initiated. The DDM
has the primary responsibility to direct and improve integrated planning and delivery
across the three spheres of government.

The Government of National Unity (GNU) has emphasised the need for every municipality
to work effectively to regain public trust and fulfil government's constitutional obligations.
The DDM is to actively oversee, guide and champion integrated planning which has been
identified as a critical strategy for remove silos and foster collaboration across
government and society through 6 (six) transformative principles to guide and inform
each Local Government's One Plan.

( Economic Positioning
NN
District @ Spatial Restructuring
Development

Model

Figure 2: District Development Model (DDM) Transformative Principles that inform each Local Government's One
Plan

The Local Government's Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and the DDM One Plan are
interrelated. The IDP sets out the long-terms goals, strategies and projects for the local
government (municipality level) whilst the DDM integrates these with the larger provincial
and national government objectives. The IDP informs the local government's One Plan

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 4|15

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

with insight into the local needs and priorities. All these different plans and goals can be
digitised and incorporated into the MacrocommaAl Unity® platform allowing for integrity
in measuring, monitoring, actioning and reporting across all government spheres.

3 Problem Statement

Local government (municipalities) faces a growing crisis of governance and service
delivery characterised by financial mismanagement, corruption, infrastructure decay,
poor service delivery, lack of urban planning, technical and institutional capabilities, and
growing public distrust and frustration. These persistent ills and increasing risks
undermine their ability to meet their constitutional mandate. threatening social cohesion
and widening inequalities.

The primary issues municipalities are having to tackle head-on are:

e Financial e Governance and e Service Delivery e Lack of Capacity
Mismanagement Corruption Failures and Skills
& Instability

e Aging and Poorly | e Urbanizationand | e SocialUnrestand | e Climate and
Maintained Housing Pressure Community Environmental
Infrastructure Protests Vulnerabilities

The DDM aids municipalities in address these issues through integrated, cooperative
governance at the local government level, oversight and direct guidance.

The DDM adds to the complexity of governance structures, duplication and bureaucracy
for the provincial and local government bodies which creates barriers for adoption and
implementation. Stakeholders struggle with the DDM hubs mandates, roles and
responsibilities, and their inability to measure its performance, and value contribution.

Oo

. Cooperative of Governance nw
National and Traditional Affairs - COGTA o
a

? s/s

2

net South African Local o
Provincial Government Association - SALGA roy
Bw 3

3

oO

=)

Local Municipalities (8 metropolitan, 44 cr

district and 205 local municipalities) =

Local °
= Bw 2.

wl

Ward Councillors

Figure 3: The three (3) spheres of government and how the DDM has been envisaged to build a central repository
and standard across these

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page5 | 15

macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

This impacts the budgetary requirements for the DDM as the potential for corruption
exists, and the fear that monies for various key projects will be diverted disempowering
local governments to achieve their commitments to their constituencies.

The lack of capacity and technical skills within municipalities hinders the delivery of
quality services, and the lack of accountability and oversight often lead to
mismanagement and can result in corruption.

The local government systemic service delivery failure has left many communities without
reliable access to water, sanitation, electricity, and waste management.

For the DDM to achieve its goals of improved service delivery, integrated planning, and
sustainable development, it must address these critical challenges. This will require a
robust artificial intelligence platform to facilitate integrated governance through
dashboards, scorecards, analytics and predictive modelling.

There are 161 municipalities that are at medium risk of instability and financial distress;
representing 63% of South Africa’s local government. This is high vulnerability especially
if we consider that only 61 (24%) are deemed stable. The other 196 municipalities status
of distressed and medium risk require government oversight to monitor, support and
assist to prevent further decline and inability to serve their citizens. These municipalities
have financial and local government mismanagement, poor financial planning and
governance, and lack service delivery.

Municipalities Risk

200 161
10 111 107
100 64 66 vs 66 64 61
0 —
Distressed Medium Risk Low Risk Stable

2021 2022 2023

Figure 4: Whilst more municipalities are being reflected as stable and distressed are decreasing, the majority of
municipalities are medium risks. Source: DCoG Strategic Plan for 2025-2030

4 MacrocommaAl Unity® Solution

MacrocommaAl Unity© is a modulised Al solution that provides all three (3) spheres of
government to collaborate more effectively and efficiently through the use of analytics
and predictive analytics dashboards and scorecards, providing a standardisation of
technology by facilitating the different software platforms information to be accessible
across departments and enabling effective knowledge management and record keeping.

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 6 | 15

mMacrocomm

“ SMART MADE SIMPLE

MacrocommaAl Unity®

KPI /OKR Management Tool & Dashboard

Evaluation, Education, Training,

Performance Monitoring Scorecard(s) across KPI / OKR 02 Coaching and Mentoring
local government rolling up to national level Management Access training, education, assess
to ensure service delivery from traffic-light Tool & Training, performance, skill gaps, service delivery
maintenance to queue management for bill 01 Dashboard Coaching, breaks, identify responsible staff to drive
payments across each set performance Mentoring change and upskill for improved

indicator for efficiencies and shared
corporate service analysis.

delivery; with identification of on-job
mentors and coaches

03 Analytics, Alerts and Reporting
Driving analytics, reporting and
MacrocommaAl predictive analysis of all data
: Analytics within the municipality systems
Unity and facilitating the roll-up to a
Reporting national level. The ability to set
different alerts to inform
immediate issues to be

Knowledge Management and
Effective Record Keeping Knowledge
The National Archives and Records Management
Service record management can be
enabled for all documents, policies,
financials, emails, recorded

meetings and other allowing for 06 e

easy access from local to national

government, and for analytics on the addressed
records kept with security levels. 04 Financial & Budget Management and
Smart Services Analytics Smart Ss Analytics
Leveraging the smart services programmes Services Financial Management of the financial and
and accessing this data and billing (for Management budget management segment, and if
example Macrocomm Smart Utility 05 & Budget there are profitability / sustainability
Solutions for Municipalities or Traffic Tracking through integration with existing
Management or Garbage Collection etc.) to systems and providing analytics that
provide analytics and predictive analysis enable effective monitoring at local to
for local to national government for national government level
effective monitoring, measuring and

planning.

Figure 5: MacrocommaAl Unity Platform Driving Integrated Solutions and Governance

CoGTA and the DDM have a need for smarter governance, enabled by real-time data,
artificial intelligence, and systemic accountability to help rebuild public trust and meet
the government's objectives for South Africa. Municipalities need a solution that
transforms governance into a transparent, data-driven system, with early warning,
shared accountability, and performance visibility at its core.

Strategic Alignment | No

/\

Value Implementation

ce Co oe Cy ee

Figure 6 MacrocommaAl Unity© offers service governance aligning with government strategy, offering high value
and requiring a skilled team for an intermediate level implementation

MacrocommaAl starts with financial, performance and service governance as the first step
towards an Al Smart Municipality Solution by promoting higher productivity and enabling

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 7 | 15

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

citizen services. This Al Solution ensures strategic alignment with CoGTA and National
Treasury objectives regarding the DDM, offers high value with ease of access to
information, analytics, scorecards, dashboards and the ability to model using predictive
analytics. MacrocommAl Unity® is an empowering solution that will aid the DDM to
oversee, guide and direct municipalities to meet respective and national objectives and
targets.

Once this governance structure is in place, it is easier to incorporate other Al Tools
regarding key service delivery areas such as traffic management, health care, urban
planning amongst key services due to the modular structure of MacrocommAl’s
Solutions.

MacrocommaAl Unity© enables local-, provincial- and national government officials to
monitor and measure for modernisation of the municipality, enhancements and
streamlining of processes the identified key performance indicators (KPI's) such as:

° Services
fo) Waste collection turnaround time, bin capacity, tonnage collected per
route, fuel efficiency, missed pick up rate
° Road conditions, visual condition index, pothole density, potholes
repaired, road infrastructure damage (curbs, storm drains, traffic signs)
fo) Traffic light queue length, near misses, cables stolen, uptime
(active/inactive), repaired, malfunction frequency, delays, travel time
° Financial
° Revenue earned from different utilities such as water, electricity;
expenditure on different projects and key maintenance areas, and
departmental costs; budget vs actual; debt and cashflow management.

The modular structure of MacrocommAl Unity© allows for the integration and
incorporation of the different municipal software systems/tools such as the Potholefixgp
or SAMRAS, SOLAR, Munsoft, EnerGov, MetVal, and CityView; which help them with
financial management, property and revenue management, public works, and overall
operational efficiency.

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 8 | 15

macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Dashboards
Scorecards
Reports

MacrocommaAl Unity®

Dashboards/Scorecards for Effective
Management, Planning and Operational
Efficiencies
Government objectives and targets
KPI's

+ Performance monitoring and measurements
+ Financials
+ Reporting
+ Different Software/Systems
+ Al-Driven Features (e.g. Predictive Modelling,

Alerts)

. IFMS

Security & Governance
+ Administration

Coding
Platform
Integration

D
Ingestion
Analytics,

ML, DL

KPI Engine

Password Control
Role-Based Access Control
Data Quality Monitoring
Risk and Compliance (Audit Trails)
+ Automation of various Workflows and
Processes
Updates/Upgrades of the system; New
version releases
+ Training

Forecasting and
Planning

Per Service
Per Department

Dashboard
Maps

View: National / Provincial / Local (roll-up/drill-down)

Figure 7: MacrocommAI! Unity® - A simple overview of the blueprint

Once the core governance and oversight platform is deployed, the implementation is
intermediate and requires a well-skilled team from government to help drive the set-up
of MacrocommAl Unity®. The priority would be agreed for the incorporation which may
be to start with the financial systems or operational efficiency systems (CityView).

4.1 Smart Municipalities Start with Service Governance Excellence

MacrocommaAl offers a powerful Al-first approach to financial, performance and service
governance that leverages Al algorithms to expedite routine processes saving
government officials time and freeing them to focus on execution and analytics for
streamlining and enhancing processes for service delivery.

Unity® ,a real-time monitoring system that aligns municipal performance with national
service delivery objectives, using data provides a tool of accountability and
transformation that facilitates the rolling up to a national level for the much-needed
collaboration and support across all government spheres.

CoGTA and the DDM through Unity® will be able to provide the required oversight to
guide municipal activities, monitor implementation of policies, drive accountability to the
community and ensure corrective action as mandated.

The Smart Municipality Solution uses a modular, scalable framework using foundational
components designed to address specific gaps in governance; from aligning national KPIs
with local outputs to monitoring citizen impact in real time. It aligns service delivery with
measurable Key Performance Indicators (KPI) tied to national government priorities.

This is embedded within MacrocommaAl's intelligent platform, which connects
departments, tracks data in real time, and applies Al to highlight risks, trends, and
performance outcomes. This turns fragmented operations into an intelligent, unified
system of action, and enables the predictability modelling functionality for local

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page9 | 15

macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

government and the DDM to prepare for various possible scenarios, making it a powerful

aid to build future capability.

Each module component from dashboards and scorecards to alerts to anonymised
metrics ensures that municipalities remain focused on delivery, not bureaucracy.

Dashboard Examples: Service Delivery

Traffic Light Management

Traffic Light Management

43% \
Operational

Response Time

i) Gn
167
Offline

15
Under
Maintenance

Va \ \
38 25
Damaged Faulty

X JW

Issues by Type

Cable Stolen Ts
Controller Fave Ts
Wiingissve
Alignment
Bulb Failure

Shiecence  N1&President Fouche)
@Offline @ Under Maintenance e Damaged

Road Condition - Pothole Management

Pothole Management Response Time

_———— eT
258 34% an
Open Resolved
39% LN h
Road
Condition 38 15% 1h

Resolution

Repaired This
Week — | Rate

Issues by Type

Bryanston
Sando,
Sunninghil Ds
Midrand
Hyde Park ES

Nan hed

igh Severity e Medium Severity® Low Severity

It enables DDM and _ National

Treasury oversight without micromanagement,

accountability without blame, and transparency without fear.

Dashboard Examples: Finance and Human Resources

Financial Dashboard

HR KPI's

Employee Structure

» 70% 30% >

Eoucationead Education TE
$180 $210

Number of Employees Full Time Employment
620 600

Salary Education Spending
$54,000 $122

These dashboards and scorecards enable easy monitoring and can be viewed at a
national level with the drilldown to local municipality levels allowing for the identification
of risk areas and municipalities, and where national government needs to ensure budget
allocation for larger reforming and modernising projects such as smart metering

solutions.

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA

Page 10 | 15

MacrocommAl Unity® Core Components

National Objectives
Digitised

Government KPAs (e.g. access to
water, waste management,
electricity) are codified in the
MacrocommAl backend.

Each KPA is linked to measurable
indicators for tracking.

Municipal KPI
Alignment

Municipal departments align
their deliverables (e.g. meter
installations, pothole repairs,
load-shedding reduction) with
these national objectives.

Each department gets KPI
ownership (e.g. Utilities = smart
meter data, Public Works = road
repair logs)

Live Performance
Dashboard

A real-time dashboard collects
data from departments, utilities,
citizen interfaces, and loT
devices (smart meters, waste
bins, sensors).

GNU and National Treasury have
a live view: "What did your
municipality deliver this week?”

macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

Automated Alerts &
Early Warning System

Al flags underperformance or
negative trends before they
escalate.

Notifications prompt local
managers with insights and
recommended interventions.

Data-Driven Not
People-Driven

The solution focuses purely on
service delivery data.

No individual performance
tracking, avoiding resistance
while building trust in the
system.

Scorecard View

Colour-coded dashboard shows
Red (Failing), Yellow (At Risk),
Green (On Track).

National leadership can quickly
assess where intervention is
needed

Figure 8: MacrocommA! Unity® Guiding Principle Components

These guiding principle components work together to provide a holistic, digital nervous
system for municipal governance, giving both local managers and national authorities the
tools to monitor, assess, and improve service delivery continuously.

The value of this solution isn’t just technical, it’s transformational. Municipalities that
embrace MacrocommAI will gain the capacity to operate with precision, speed, cost
effectiveness and transparency. This builds internal efficiency, improves public trust, and
aligns every action with a measurable outcome.

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 11|15

Gracrocomm

MART MADE SIMPLE

*No more quarterly reports. Live
Real-Time Visibility dashboards make service delivery
transparent.

*Alerts before systems collapse allow for
preventative action.

Early Intervention

‘Everyone works toward the same
measurable objectives.

*A single model applied across
municipalities for benchmarking.
Public Trust *Residents see tangible, trackable proof
of delivery.

Figure 9: MacrocommAl Unity® Outcome Benefits

Ultimately, these benefits enable a shift from reactive service management to proactive
service excellence, making it possible to restore credibility and improve lives, one well-
governed municipality at a time.

5 Methodology

MacrocommaAl is not just about being a use-case scenario solution rather we focus on
Industrialised Intelligence that is grounded in an Al Centre of Excellence that is grounded
in an intentional, government-wide operating model that focuses on the development of
a strategic centre which is aligned to all constitutional obligations and local government
objectives. This strategic centre is based upon three core pillars: technical capability for
resilience and scalability, value fulfilment engine, and a robust risk and compliance
structure.

5.1 Design the DDM Al Target Operating Model

To have a robust Target Operating Model (TOM), the following would need to be
established: a data science team to work closely with CoGTA, National Treasury, DDM,
SALGA and Local Government (as rolled out to each district or metropolitan area); a
Centre of Excellence at DDM, and an Al Governance Council with senior stakeholders
across government entities.

5.2 An Al Capabilities Assessment and Map

MacrocommaAl will aid COGTA, National Treasury, DDM, Provincial and Local Government
to assess and align their capabilities.

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 12 | 15

“macrocomm

SMART MADE SIMPLE

5.3 Change Management and Communication Strategy

MacrocommaAl will create clear, consistent and pertinent communication strategies to
ensure that all stakeholders are informed of the benefits and impact of this solution.

5.4 Al Target Operating Model: Centralised Hybrid TOM

To facilitate and enable the DDM for CoGTA and National Treasury, an Al Centralised TOM
is proposed with a hybrid of local government aligned hubs.

5.4.1. Centralised TOM

The starting point would be to build the Centralised TOM strength to ensure governance
oversight through a Centre of Excellence and a Portfolio Steering Committee that
oversees the Planning (where all government priorities, objectives and KPI are set and
managed), Building (solution development and project management) and Deployment
(Where the solutions are implemented and maintained).

5.4.1.1 Benefits

The benefits are effective long-term planning, strong oversight of finances and
governance, best practice and centralised technology solutions, economies of scale,
expertise development across government and cost effectiveness.

5.4.1.2 Downside

The downside to be managed are the potential silos that may occur between the teams
that plan, build and deploy, agility may be comprised, a one-size-fits-all approach across
all local government and slower decision making due to steering portfolio protocols.

5.4.2 Hybrid Local Government (Geographically) Aligned TOM

The second phase would be to add a sub-layer of local government aligned hubs where
there is a local government portfolio steering committee that provides the required
oversight and strategy to meet the needs, objectives and targets of that district or
metropolitan area.

5.4.2.1 Benefits

The benefit of building this hybrid alignment will be autonomy and agility regarding the
local government requirements and allow for dedicated local teams to ensure that all
service demands are met.

5.4.2.2. Downside

The downside is that this level of Al capability and maturity will need to be developed with
the required supporting processes, technology standards, demands collaboration and
strong communication to prevent loss of synergy and unnecessary complexity.

This will require upskilling and cross-learning across each area, continual reinforcement
of the bigger DDM AI Governance strategy, regular enforcement of standards to remove

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 13 | 15

macro

SMART MADE SIMPLE

siloed technology architecture and awareness that initially it will be costly but if well
managed become cost effective and show returns.

5.4.3 Implementation Approach Proposed

Build the centralised operating model and parallel run the development of hybrid aligned
(geographical) operation model with those local governments (municipalities) that are
identified as being the most digitally inclined to adopt the Smart Municipality solution.

SALGA has identified Cape Town, Johannesburg, Tshwane, and eThekwini, as well as other
districts and municipalities such as Dr Kenneth Kaunda, Gert Sibande, O.R. Tambo, Pixley
ka Seme, Thabo Mofutsanyane, Umgungundlovu, Umzinyathi, and Vnembe as being
digitally inclined municipalities.

6 Timeline From Design to Implement

The timeline from Design to Implementation is assessed in a pre-audit assessment for
final solutioning and project plan design.

The timeline will be broken into three core phases of deliverables for review of 90, 180
and 270 days.

7 MacrocommaAl Overview

Macrocomm Group is a leading loT Company focussing on smart solutions driving
connected intelligence and driving upskilling to prepare South Africa for the Fifth
Industrial Revolution; the inclusion of people to ensure smart delivery across government
and re-earning public trust.

8 Conclusion

The Smart Municipality Solution, powered by MacrocommAl Unity©, is not just a system
upgrade, it’s a shift in service and governance culture. Unity© placing data, Al
capabilities and People at the centre of public accountability, empowering local
governments, all soheres of government and the DDM, to perform better, respond faster,
and serve smarter to meet the national objectives and public needs.

Together with CoGTA, MacrocommAl Unity® can redefine what "good governance" looks
like in South Africa and prove that municipalities can deliver and be managed effectively,
as well as rewin public trust.

MG-PPSL-AISMUNIC-COGTA 202508.03 MG SMART MUNICIPALITY PROPOSAL TO COGTA Page 14| 15