Document - Template Name MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SMM15 Rev:00 \

Description MG HUMAN RESOURCES SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY LZ

Revision No o acrocol SIMPLE
Date of Revision 27 MAY 2024

Document Name:

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 MACROCOMM GROUP

Updated on:

27MIN 202 HUMAN RESOURCES
or SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
Author:

Human Resources

DOCUMENT CONTROL

This provides information on the document version control and sign-off

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01 MG HR SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY Page 0 | 6

Document - Template Name MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SMM15 Rev:00

Description MG HUMAN RESOURCES SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY &

Revision No o acro' MADE SIMPLE
Date of Revision 27 MAY 2024

DOCUMENT HISTORY

DOCUMENT NAME VERSION | DATE

MC-PO-SMM15 00 16 APR 2021

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 01 27 MAY 2024
DOCUMENT APPROVAL

DOCUMENT NAME.VERSION

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01
CHANGES MADE

Reformatted for easy change control with minor updates to corresponding documents and
procedures.

STAKEHOLDER NAME AND DESIGNATION SIGNATURE | DATE

Yakshini Naidoo (Macrocomm Group Human
Resources Director)

Elton Chettiar (Macrocomm Group Chief
Operating Officer - 16.2)

Kamal Bhimma (Macrocomm Group Chief
Legal Officer)

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01 MG HR SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY Page 1 | 6

Document - Template Name MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SMM15 Rev:00 ~\

Description MG HUMAN RESOURCES SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY Ga

Revision No of vf 7 acrocor SIMPLE
Date of Revision 27 MAY 2024

TABLE OF CONTENTS

=
vu
Cc
vs)
vu
fe)
n
m
{e)
nn
+
=
m
uU
je)
c
a
<

au BW DN
v
2
2
a
z
-
m
wn

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01 MG HR SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY Page 2 | 6

Document - Template Name MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SMM15 Rev:00

Description MG HUMAN RESOURCES SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY fe

Revision No o acro' MADE SIMPLE
Date of Revision 27 MAY 2024

1 Purpose of the Policy

This policy provides Macrocomm management and employees with company applicable
rules for the use and application of social media. This Policy applies to the use of social
media for i) company purposes in an official social media release by authorised
management and ii) the use of social media platforms by employees in their capacity as
employees of the company and in their private capacity.

2 Policy definition

1.1. This policy applies to the use and application of social media by Macrocomm
and its employees on interactive web-based applications. Such on-line
interactions results in user-generated content such as text posts and
comments, digital photos and videos becoming publicly available. Users also
create profiles for the website or applications that are designed and
maintained by a social media organization. Online social networks are created
by connecting a user's profile with those of other individuals or groups.

1.2. For the purpose of this policy, social media interaction therefore includes
participating in or placing content on social media, for example, blogs,
message boards, chat rooms, electronic newsletters, online forums, social
networking sites, and other sites and services that permit users to share
information with others. Social media platforms include Facebook, Instagram,
WhatsApp, Twitter, LinkedIn, Telegram and the like and are accessed from
electronic devices such as the desktop, laptop, smart phones, notebooks,
tablets and like devices.

3 Responsibilities

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

Maintenance and management of the company’s official social media platforms is
the responsibility of the Head of Marketing.

The Head of Marketing is responsible for responding completely and accurately to
any public posts for content posted on social media channels and platforms.

The Head of Marketing has oversight on compliance and management of the
Company's social media platforms.

The Head of Marketing may assign administrator roles on the Company's social
media platforms.

Top management may act as a spokesperson for social media purposes or
designate an employee to act as a spokesperson.

Employees in general have the responsibility to adhere to acceptable conduct to
protect the Company's image, reputation and compliance with laws and legislation
when representing Macrocomm on social media.

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01 MG HR SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY Page 3 | 6

Document - Template Name MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SMM15 Rev:00 \

Description MG HUMAN RESOURCES SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY LZ

Revision No o acroc wave SIMPLE
Date of Revision 27 MAY 2024

4 Principles

The following principles apply to professional use of social media on behalf Macrocomm
as well as personal use of social media when referencing Macrocomm.

4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

4.6

4.7

4.8

Employees need to know and adhere to the Employee Handbook, (MCT-PO-EHBO8)
and other company policies when using social media in reference to Macrocomm.

Employees should be aware of the effect their actions may have on their images, as
well as Macrocomm's image, reputation and legal obligations. The information that
employees post or publish may be public information for a long time.

Employees should be aware that Macrocomm may observe content and
information made available by employees through social media that in any manner
references Macrocomm, its employers, customers, suppliers, vendors or members.
Employees should use their best judgment in posting material so as to prevent
action that is inappropriate, defamatory, harmful or interferes with the privacy of
the aforesaid.

Although not an exclusive list, some specific examples of prohibited social media
conduct include posting commentary, content, or images that:

4.4.1 are defamatory, pornographic, proprietary, harassing, libellous; or

4.4.2 that can create a hostile work environment or discontent between
employees or employees and the company;

4.4.3 are proprietary as intellectual property to Macrocomm other than for
permitted use by employees, such as Macrocomm’s logo on the email or on
letterheads;

4.4.4 interfere with the privacy of other employees and persons and include
Personal Information as defined in the company’s POPIA (Protection of
Personal Information Act) policy

Employees are not to publish, post or release any information that is considered
confidential or private. If there are questions about what is considered confidential,
employees should consult with the Top Management.

Social media networks, blogs and other types of online content sometimes generate
press and media attention or legal questions. Employees should refer these
inquiries to the Head of Marketing and Top Management.

Employees should get appropriate permission before they refer to or post images
of current or former employees, members, vendors or suppliers. Additionally,
employees should get appropriate permission to use a third party's copyrights,
copyrighted material, trademarks, service marks or other intellectual property.

Social media use should not interfere with employee’s responsibilities at
Macrocomm.

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01 MG HR SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY Page 4 | 6

Document - Template Name MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01

Previous Name, if changed MC- PO-SMM15 Rev:00 \

Description MG HUMAN RESOURCES SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY LZ

Revision No o acroc wave SIMPLE
Date of Revision 27 MAY 2024

4.9

4.10

Macrocomm’s computers, laptops and cell phones are to be used for business
purposes only. When using Macrocomm’s property, use of Macrocomm’s owned
devices for participating on social media platforms for business purposes is
allowed, subject to the rules contained in this policy. Personal use of Macrocomm’s
devices for use social media platforms or personal blogging of online content is NOT
ALLOWED.

Employees should take into consideration that their use of social media will be
perceived as representing Macrocomm and should tailor their use accordingly.

Personal use of Macrocomm- owned devices for participation on social medial
platform after working hours in contravention of Macrocomm’'s Code of Conduct,
this policy or any other company policy is not allowed.

5 WhatsApp Group

5.1

5.2

5.3

5.4

5.5

5.6
5.7

6.1

Social Chat platforms used for business (WhatsApp groups) are strictly for business
purposes only. Only content relating to the organisation may be discussed. No
other content (jokes, memes etc) is allowed to be posted onto the group.

No arguing and heated opinions will be permitted.

Any post that contains racism, sexism, xenophobia, homophobia, ethnically divisive
remarks or any other topic that offends and disturbs the tranquillity of the group
should be avoided.

Never use the group to berate someone else or air grievances. If you have an issue
address it with the relevant person or management directly.

Post your message in one single text message, don’t post every word or sentence
in anew message.

Do not have one-on-one conversations in the group. Switch to private messages.

Avoid discussing details of a sensitive nature, which is still being resolved within
management.

Contravention of the Policy

Subject to applicable law, any action or activity by employees that violates this policy
may subject an employee to disciplinary action or termination.

MG-HR-POL-SMM15 202405.01 MG HR SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY Page 5 | 6