Template Name MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name MG-HR-POL-DAA 202506.01

Previous Name, if changed 3.MC- PO-DAAO3 Drugs and Alcohol

Description MG HR DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY

Revision No 01 ‘macroc

Date of Revision 18 JUNE 2025 SMART MADE SIMPLE
Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

Author | CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN Approver YAKSHINI NAIDOO

1

DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY

PURPOSE

The purpose of this policy is to provide employees with an environment that is conducive to
attaining high work performance and as free as possible of safety and health hazards.

The purpose of this policy is to notify all Macrocomm Group employees that illegal or
unauthorized possession or use of drugs or alcohol is not permitted on any of our Macrocomm
Group premises during working hours.

This policy applies to all Macrocomm Staff.

2

2.1

2.2

2.3

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

SCOPE OF POLICY

This policy is generally applicable to all operations of Macrocomm Group, but in no way shall
limit the rights of Macrocomm Group to take different or additional step or actions to
facilitate a safe working environment, free of drug and alcohol possession and
consumption, provided such steps or actions do not violate applicable law.

In addition to the provisions of this policy, Macrocomm Group and its employees will take
all appropriate actions to comply with the drug and alcohol policies of its clients or suppliers,
and all alcohol policies promulgated by regulatory authorities applicable under law. In the
event of a conflict between any provision of this policy and applicable law, the applicable
law shall apply and the effected provision shall have no force or effect.

This policy may be amended or modified by Macrocomm Group from time to time and its
employees duly notified of any such amendment or modification.

DEFINITIONS

“Drugs” are defined to include prescription drugs, inhalants, and other illegal, controlled, or
unauthorised substances that may cause addiction and/or affect coordination or memory.

“Macrocomm Group Premises” shall include all Macrocomm Group work places whether
occupied or vacant, cars, buildings, locker rooms, filing rooms and parking areas.

“Possession” is defined as having any amount of drugs or alcohol on one’s person, or in
ones belongings, vehicle or locker.

“Under the Influence” in terms of the occupational health and safety act of 1993 it is
against the law to allows any person who is under the influence or appears to be under the
influence to be allowed onto Macrocomm Group premises.

“Use” with regard to drugs is defined as having any trace amount of drugs in the employee's
system, or physical consumption of drugs on Macrocomm Group premises. Or while

MG-HR-POL-DAA 202506.01 MG HR DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY Page 1 of 3

Template Name

MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name

MG-HR-POL-DAA 202506.01

Previous Name, if changed 3.MC- PO-DAAO3 Drugs and Alcohol

Description

MG HR DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY

: “Ymacroc

Revision No a [ Ti)
Date of Revision 18 JUNE 2025 SMART MADE SIMPLE
Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

Author | CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN Approver YAKSHINI NAIDOO

conducting Macrocomm Group business. “Use” with regard to alcohol is defined as the
physical consumption of alcohol on Macrocomm Group premises or while working or
conducting Macrocomm Group business.

4 POLICY

4.1. The following actions by any employee of Macrocomm Group are considered to be
violations of this policy:-

4.1.1

Use, possession, sale or distribution of drug or alcohol on Macrocomm Group
premises or while conducting Macrocomm Group business, with the exception that
use of alcohol during Macrocomm Group functions or client functions or socials,
where the use of alcohol remains moderate will not be considered a violation of
this policy.

Employee operation of Macrocomm Group vehicles or equipment while using
drugs or alcohol.

Possession of prescribed drugs that are not in the correct container or are not
prescribed for that employee.

Possession of any prescribed drug which is unsafe to use while at the workplace.
(employees using these types of drugs must notify their manager of such use
before continuing to work)

Possession of “Look-Alike” drugs in any form.

Possession of any paraphernalia and equipment related to illegal or unauthorized
drug use.

5 EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES

5.1 Employee responsibilities under this policy include :-

5.1.1

Complying with Macrocomm Group's policy on drugs and alcohol;

e Reporting any known use, sale, possession, or distribution of drugs on
Macrocomm Group premises, vehicles or while on Macrocomm Group
business;

e Informing your manager or employer if you are using prescribed drugs that
could in any way affect your work performance or your safety in the
workplace;

¢ Compliance of this policy is a condition of continued employment.

6 SEARCHES AND TESTS

6.1 Macrocomm Group reserves the right, at any given time to have authorised personnel

MG-HR-POL-DAA 202506.01 MG HR DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY Page 2 of 3

Template Name MG-ISO-TEM 202502.03

Document Name MG-HR-POL-DAA 202506.01 \

Previous Name, if changed 3.MC- PO-DAAO3 Drugs and Alcohol r~ \

Description MG HR DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY VE \) ;

Revision No 01 macro¢e giaa
Date of Revision 18 JUNE 2025 Wy SMART MADE SIMPLE
Date of Next Revision 18 JUNE 2027

Author CHARLENE VAN ONSELEN Approver YAKSHINI NAIDOO

6.2

6.3

6.3.1

6.3.2

6.3.3

6.3.4

7.1

conduct searches or inspections of desks, personal effects, vehicles, lockers, briefcases,
baggage of employees for the purpose of determining if any such persons are in
possession of any drugs or alcohol.

Macrocomm Group reserves the right to refuse entry or to evict from its premises any
employee who is under the influence of liquor or drugs. Employees may not bring liquor or
drugs onto the premises without the permission of the Manager.

Macrocomm Group reserves the right, at any given time to have authorised personnel
conduct breathalyser tests, urinalyses, or blood tests of its employees for determining if
any such persons are reasonably suspected to be under the influence. These tests can be
administered in the following situations :

Pre - Employment;

Testing after an employee has been involved in an accident with a Macrocomm Group
vehicle;

Random Drug Testing;

Testing based on reasonable cause or suspicion.

DISCIPLINARY ACTION AS A RESULT OF A VIOLATION
OF THIS POLICY

Disciplinary action may be taken against an employee if found to be in violation of this
policy or if an employee refuses to consent to this policy or if the employee refuses to
submit to any search, breathalyser test, or blood test.

MG-HR-POL-DAA 202506.01 MG HR DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY Page 3 of 3